[music]
From the New York Times, I'm Natalie
Ketrof. This is the Daily.
>> What is he being pulled over for?
>> There's a child.
>> He's having a seizure. They're trying to
rip the baby out of her hand.
>> My boy was a baby in the back that
wasn't doing absolutely nothing.
>> Mommy, you okay, mama?
>> You okay?
You're okay.
>> As the Trump administration ramps up its
crackdown on illegal immigration,
[music] it's turned to one agency and
one man officials believe can help them
dramatically increase [music]
deportations.
Border Patrol Chief Greg Bevino.
>> Arrest as many people that touch you as
you want to. Those are the general
orders. He's the law enforcement figure
who's now at the center of the most
aggressive raids and tactics being
employed in American cities.
>> Why are your officers asking you where
I'm from?
>> I thought you guys are doing targeted
arrest.
>> Today, my colleague Had Ali Aziz speaks
to Bo [music]
and explains why his militaristic
approach may be here to stay.
[music] It's Wednesday, November 12th.
Hammed, we're now almost 10 months into
the Trump administration's crackdown on
immigration. And over the course of that
period, you've come on the show at
several points. And you've told us that
despite all of the videos that we're
seeing of these ICE raids and these
arrests and these very aggressive
enforcement tactics, the administration
is actually frustrated internally with
the pace, the slow pace they see of
deportations. And you've been reporting
recently on the changes that they are
making to try to address that. So let's
start there. Walk me through that.
Yeah, the Trump administration when they
came in, they promised mass
deportations. And as part of that, there
was this massive push earlier this year
to arrest 3,000 people a day. That was
the goal. And ICE has gotten nowhere
near that goal. Across the country,
typically ICE on a weekday is averaging
around 1,300 arrests. And because of the
inability to get these numbers, there
have been constant changes at ICE. And
not just recently, but throughout the
year. They've replaced their director.
They've replaced multiple senior
officials.
And a couple weeks ago, they got rid of
almost half of the senior leaders across
the country.
>> Just to drill down here for a second,
what is it that the administration is
actually taking issue with? What are
these leaders doing wrong according to
the administration?
>> I think one of the main issues here is
that the way ICE has historically
conducted immigration enforcement is
really time inensive. What ICE does,
they spend a long time surveilling a
single individual. They send out several
people to go arrest that person.
Sometimes that person's not there. So
there's so many resources. There's so
much time just to get a small number of
people. And right now the administration
and DHS and ICE is running into really
kind of a inherent issue with the way
ICE does its work.
>> It sounds like you're saying they see
ICE as actually too methodical, which
honestly is sort of hard to square with
the images that we've seen of these
agents tackling people, slamming people
to the ground, breaking families up. But
then again, we did talk to you a couple
months ago about an ICE raid that you
and one of our producers went on and
that was this big dayong raid where they
only detained three people.
>> Yeah. I mean, there have been countless
videos. You see ICE smashing windows to
get people. We've seen officer involved
shootings involving ICE. There are these
really dramatic videos of ICE conducting
immigration sweeps in the country. But
for ICE, that's the type of drama that
they want to avoid. Typically, what they
want to do is they want to secure the
scene. They want to get in and out. And
they take a lot of pride in conducting
their immigration enforcement in this
manner.
>> But of course, to pull off a smooth
raid, it takes time and planning. And
the agents have to be meticulous in the
leadup. And as far as the administration
is concerned, time is something that ICE
just doesn't have. So they've looked to
another agency and that's Border Patrol.
>> Border Patrol typically operates near
the southern border. They are in charge
of stopping people who cross into the
country illegally and they're more
willing to be in your face to be more
militaristic in many ways. And they are
very aggressive in their approach. and
they've been really behind some of the
videos that have gone viral, including,
you know, people being chased at Home
Depot, raids on apartment buildings,
people being arrested at car washes.
These are border patrol, not ICE. And
now the administration wants them to do
more and to be really at the forefront
of immigration enforcement in the United
States. And the guy that's overseeing
all of this, the person who is the
commander of this operation is a guy
named Greg Beavino.
>> Hey, Chief. How are you?
>> I'm doing good. How you doing?
>> I'm doing well. So, I recently spoke
with him to understand his career,
>> where he came from, and why he's been
empowered by the Trump administration.
And when you hear his story, it's pretty
clear that his whole career has been
leading up to this point.
>> And where does that story start for him?
>> Well, really at a young age, he's
somebody who was drawn to the agency
through books, through film.
>> I'm sure I'm not going to be telling you
anything you don't know. The game's a
little different around here. In fact,
he had a distant relative. He calls him
an uncle who was a producer in
Hollywood.
>> Never knew him, but he produced a movie
called The Border with Jack Nicholson.
>> The Border,
it divided the land,
it divided the man.
>> And I remember, I believe I was
approximately 8, 9 years old, and my
parents took me to see that movie
because Uncle Neil produced it. It was
kind of a big deal from back in rural
North Carolina to see something like
that.
>> You're killing drivers. Don't tell me I
don't know what I'm talking about
because if I don't know what I'm talking
about, where's the driver you took in
there today?
>> So, we went and watched it.
>> See this line? This line right here. I
don't cross. This line right here.
>> It got me interested in the Border
Patrol from an early age, and I
juxtaposed that against the many authors
from the 70s and 80s that were from the
Border Patrol. Um, they wrote a lot of
books. I think he was inspired by an
agency in which people are overseeing
these vast swaths of land. They're by
themselves.
>> The extreme amount of violence that
those border patrol agents or they were
called inspectors back then were up
against. And it struck me, wow, that was
a pretty tough organization to be out
there alone with no backup. And I began
to realize that that thing called the US
Border Patrol is probably something
pretty special. So I kept it in mind
through the years and when I had the
opportunity I put my application in and
was accepted and the rest is history.
>> And he joins the agency in 1996 and he
starts at the El Centro sector this area
near the southern border in California.
>> You know when I started there in El
Centro there was just open desert
between the United States and Mexico.
And I [clears throat] remember the
amount of what we would call a
drive-thru. That's when someone takes a
vehicle and drives across the border,
whether it's with a load of illegal
aliens or a load of narcotics. That was
quite rampant back in the day there 30
years ago. Now,
>> and pretty quickly, he's almost put into
the scenario that he imagined as a young
man. You know, this area that's vast
swats of land. There's not a lot of
agents out there. It's often times
agents by themselves. And so he's out
there doing the work that he
romanticized as a young man, arresting
human smugglers, arresting migrants
crossing the country illegally and
really being thrust into these intense
scenarios that just years before he was
reading in books. And from there he was
able to rise up in the agency, take on
leadership roles across the country,
including in New Orleans, and ultimately
in 2020 toward the end of the first
Trump administration, he returns to El
Centro and he takes over as border
patrol agent in charge.
>> Well, being able to return where I
started, that was pretty special. So,
there was one area of the border that I
thought I knew quite well. And once I
got down there, I couldn't even
recognize it. It was almost
unrecognizable. So, uh, I noticed there
was a lot more infrastructure. President
Trump had put the new wall in, the 30ft
wall.
>> There's now a wall. There are roads,
>> the roads, the technology, the
improvements that were made there under
President Trump's administration. So,
that's something I noticed is a much
more secure border.
>> And perhaps most consequentially, the
policies are much different. The Trump
administration at this time in 2020 has
enacted a sweeping border policy that
allows agents to quickly turn back
people, deport them without any process
or access to asylum.
>> We finally got what we were asking for.
Uh it's like they finally listened to
the border patrol. And of course, this
was in the administration's reasoning as
a result of protecting the American
public from the spread of CO.
>> Right. This was Title 42, the measure
that allowed them to immediately deport
people who tried to cross the border
because of the public health emergency.
>> Exactly.
>> So, it sounds like Bo is excited by the
Trump administration's fullthroated
approach to enforcement. How does he
experience Biden coming to office?
He was not a fan.
>> It was like turning a light switch on
and off. In this case, it was like
turning the light switch off. We went
back to the dark ages.
>> So during the Biden administration, it's
important to note that the Biden
administration continued to use Title 42
during the early years. But one thing
that happened was
>> I remember the order was given there
from that leadership in DC. It was
called throughput and decompression.
There were so many people crossing the
border that one of the strategies the
administration took was to quote unquote
decompress their border facilities. In
other words, to release people into the
country with immigration court hearings
or with notices to go see ICE. And so
during that process, many people,
hundreds of thousands of people were
allowed into the country after they had
just crossed illegally. Um, and it's
just a massive onrush of millions of
illegal aliens. You realize that, you
know, a policy like that, how damaging
that can be and how much work it could
undo. It undid a lot of work, decades of
work, all in a 24-hour period basically,
and that's all it took.
>> And for Border Patrol, that was really
demoralizing and upsetting. And Greg
Bevino really kind of embodies that,
>> right? We both actually covered this at
the time, Huh. I was covering this from
the Mexican side of the border as a
foreign correspondent. You were in the
US. Bino describes what he calls a
totally open border. That is an
oversimplification,
but it's true that we saw a more poorest
border under Biden and there was this
huge influx of people and rather than
turning all of them away, there was this
release into the country of many of
these people.
>> Yeah, I think that's right. I mean, I
think during the Biden years, there was
not an open border. There were certainly
people who were crossing illegally and
being turned back. But
>> during that time, there were so many
people crossing that many people got
through.
>> Yeah.
>> And for other migrants, there was this
kind of idea, there was a message being
sent that the Biden administration
wasn't going to go to the lengths that
the Trump administration was willing to
go to, you know,
>> to stop them from entering.
>> Exactly. And as a result of that, you
started to see hundreds of thousands of
people crossing and willing to take the
risk of potentially being deported
because they knew there was a good
chance that they wouldn't be and they
would be allowed into the United States.
>> So here's Bovino. He's on the forefront
of this in many ways. He's right on the
border and he's saying the Biden
administration is asking his agency to
do the opposite of its mission. So
>> how does he respond to that?
>> Yeah, for him he feels like he's not
going to go along with what's happening
in other parts of the border. He's going
to try his own approach in his area.
>> One of the things we did in El Centro
sector is we didn't do throughput and
decompression.
>> We continued to give consequences to
those who would come across the border.
And one of the interesting things is
when you do provide a consequence to an
illegal alien that comes across the
border, guess what? they don't want to
cross the border where you're providing
consequences.
>> So despite what he sees as the Biden
administration stance of releasing
migrants into the United States, he says
that in his sector, they kept on turning
back migrants at the border and
deporting them.
>> And toward the end of that time, as he's
getting more and more frustrated with
the Biden administration's policies
alongside other Border Patrol agents who
felt the same, he decides to amp things
up even more. What does he do?
>> In January of this year, in the final
weeks of the Biden presidency, he
conducts this sweeping operation in the
central valley of California.
>> Operation Return to Cinder. So, uh,
return to Cinder was there in
Bakersfield.
>> CBP stationed over 60 agents in and
around Kern County, claiming the
operation. This is an area that is
really vibrant with farm workers, many
people from Latino backgrounds. And so
he decides to send his border patrol
agents there,
>> arresting 78 people whom they said were
illegally in the US from Peru.
>> And pretty quickly there are these
scenes that immigrant advocates like the
ACLU are reporting back. you know, farm
workers who were in vans, driving to
work, pulled over, stopped, and
arrested.
>> The alleged crimes spanned from child
molestation to drugs and narcotic
seizures to DUI convictions, vandalism,
burglary, and domestic violence.
>> People at Home Depot stopped and
arrested.
>> I went out yesterday to two stores in
Arvin and they were all empty.
>> People who have status of some sort,
including US citizens, briefly detained.
Hm. What we're hearing is that the CVP
pulling cars over um and profiling
folks.
>> And we went to Bakersfield because of
what we had seen there coming from the
border where it was going to where these
smuggling networks were smuggling. And
it certainly opened our eyes to the need
for interior enforcement, whether it's
attacking those smuggling networks going
to and through Bakersfield or those
illegal aliens that were already in
Bakersfield. Because
>> there are a couple of things that are
worth pausing to talk about here.
>> First of all, the tactics that he's
using in this operation, pulling people
over on their drives to work, sweeping
up some American citizens in the
process. That's a real escalation from
what we were seeing at the time. But
maybe just as important is where this
operation is happening. It's not at the
border. He's going into the interior of
the country. And I'm wondering if you
see this as a test where Bovino is
starting to expand the idea of where the
Border Patrol does its work.
>> Yes, definitely. And I think for them
it's the idea here is border enforcement
doesn't stop at the border. People who
cross illegally into this country, we're
going to find them wherever they are.
>> How unusual is that, Hammed? Because
I've only interacted with Border Patrol
at the border. Is it something they've
done before to go into the interior and
do their work that way?
>> Yeah, I mean, there have been arrests of
human smugglers, you know, one-off
events. Border Patrol has helped in the
past, but this type of operation in
which they are acting as essentially ICE
officers, that type of thing is very
unusual. That is something that I have
not seen in my years of covering
immigration.
>> And so what's the reaction like? Is
there fallout? What happens?
>> Yeah, definitely. you know, community
members are upset, immigrant advocates
and lawyers are upset, and pretty
quickly the ACLU files a lawsuit,
calling out the work of Greg Beino and
his agents, basically saying that they
were stopping people at random and
arresting them without the level of
reasonable suspicion that is needed to
talk to them and to ultimately later to
arrest them. They believe that this was
sweeping operation targeting farm
workers based on their appearance. And a
federal court judge found that Border
Patrol and Greg Bevino had actually
violated the law and the way they
operated in California's Central Valley.
But despite that, Bevino sees that
operation as a clear success.
and it was a kind of test case for what
it would look like if Border Patrol
agents actually went into the interior
of the United States and arrested
immigrants.
>> Do you think at the time, despite the
questions over the legality of the
operation, Bo might have seen return to
sender as a model for the incoming Trump
administration for how they might want
to carry out enforcement? We don't know
exactly, but it's pretty clear that
Bevino feels like this is the right way
to handle immigration enforcement. This
kind of no apologies, going into
communities, rounding up people, and
operating really aggressively
in public spaces is exactly the kind of
thing that really President Trump
promised in his campaign. [music]
And this summer, as they're really
trying to pick up [music] their mass
deportation effort, they turn to Greg
Bevino and appoint him as tactical
commander.
>> We already had the model down. We
already knew what we were [music] doing.
And once we started, that good work
spoke for itself
>> and essentially unleash him on American
cities.
>> We'll be right [music] back.
You said the administration turned to
Bovino as it was ramping up its
immigration enforcement. What did it
look like?
>> Yeah, it starts in LA. If you recall, in
early June, ICE does this operation in
downtown Los Angeles.
>> Is everybody ready? We're good to go.
All TL's, are you ready? Move in. Move
in. Move in. You start to see people
being chased by border patrol agents in
the parking lots of Home Depot.
>> Car washes are another main area for
Border Patrol agents to arrest
immigrants. You see food stands on the
street.
>> Yo, are you serious, bro?
>> Suddenly, there are all these videos
coming out of Los Angeles. I'M ALONE.
>> HE'S A US citizen.
>> Get back on the wall.
>> Showing a really almost chaotic
immigration sweep.
[cheering]
>> It unleashes mass protests.
>> President Trump sends a National Guard.
It's this really intense period where
the administration is saying we're not
going to back off. We're going to do
immigration enforcement anywhere.
>> And by we, it really means Greg Bevino
who's overseeing the operation.
>> What did the secretary tell you when she
appointed you to this job? What did she
tell you about what she expected?
>> We want you to make a difference. We
want you to attack those smuggling
routes and remove some of these really
bad people and bad things from Los
Angeles. Go.
>> This is the Trump administration saying,
"Do this every single day in one of the
biggest cities in America."
>> And what does Bo say about the huge
outcry that these tactics elicited? I
mean, we remember the backlash, the
protests, the anger, and the sense that
a lot of people had that these raids
just didn't have a lot of order to them,
that they're these sweeping operations
kind of targeting people seemingly at
random. you know, for him there is no
equivocation.
>> Can you walk me through how you do it,
how you pick your targets, how you go
about arresting people, because I think
the criticism is that it appears kind of
random. Can you talk through how you go
about picking up people at Home Depot?
>> Sure, Hammad. And I'm not going to go
too much into the tactics, but um even
before we go to a city, we gather
intelligence from many different means.
Let's just say that. So, we already know
that there are bad people, bad things in
certain locations. We're going there. We
gather our intelligence.
>> Bavino says that they are operating on
intelligence, that they are targeting
people based on their own surveillance.
And as far as whether or not it's
random.
>> Now, if there are other individuals
there, they're going to get arrested.
Also, if you're an illegal alien, you're
going to get arrested. He says that if
there are other people in the area that
we believe are undocumented,
>> they will be arrested as well.
>> This is what is often referred to as
collaterals. Right.
>> Exactly. These are people who are around
targets of an immigration operation.
And when you go to a Home Depot, when
you go to a public place where there are
a lot of people, the prospect of getting
more collateral arrests goes way up. And
as part of that, you're going to have
the potential to get more numbers to to
arrest more people and go towards that
goal that the administration has strived
toward, which is 3,000 arrests a day.
>> Right. And for the Trump administration,
it's kind of easy to see the appeal of
Bo's approach, especially compared to
ICE's more directed version of
enforcement by going into big public
areas instead of, you know, a single
person's home. It's more likely that
you're going to detain a bunch of
people. Maybe they're people that you
weren't originally looking for, but that
might help the administration meet its
goal of working to deport as many people
as possible. So, my question is, how
exactly does Border Patrol decide who to
stop when they're there? What's the
criteria they use?
>> Well, the way he describes it to me is a
process called reasonable suspicion.
that reasonable suspicion is below
probable cause. Many of your viewers
probably understand what probable cause
is. Reasonable suspicion is an even
lower standard. So to get that
reasonable suspicion, we look at things
called articulable facts.
>> And someone's ethnicity is is is
naturally an articulable fact as well.
>> It could be, but that's a case by case
basis. Hammad, there's not a blanket um
articulable fact sheet that we're going
to look and say, well, you know what? um
that guy's got all these or that girl's
got all these and go get them.
>> Basically, immigration officers must
have a reasonable suspicion that
somebody's in the country illegally to
be able to stop them and question them
about their status. But it's the basis
for that reasonable suspicion that has
led to allegations that Border Patrol
agents in Los Angeles have racially
profiled people.
That's something that Greg Bevino and
the US Border Patrol disputed.
>> We're not looking at any one thing. We
like the compendium facts. We like a lot
of different facts put together. The
outward facing characteristics of an
individual. Do they turn and run? Is
that an articulable fact?
>> So, but like let's say you're at a um
Home Depot and you got the criminals
that you're you've targeted, you're
arresting, and then next to them are
people who are apparently appear to be
Latino. they speak Spanish. Would that
be enough to kind of start questioning
and figuring out whether or not to
arrest them?
>> You know, Ahmad, I I talked to and our
agents talk to um people that are, as
you say, Latino or speak Spanish every
day. And um a lot of those folks are
legal permanent residents. They have
legal documents. It happens all the
time. Not a big deal to us if someone
speaks Spanish. I I speak Spanish. Not
the greatest. his contention, his main
thing to push back on that is this idea
that
>> the idea of just speaking Spanish is not
enough for them to arrest somebody. Uh
he points to, hey, we've arrested people
from Europe, including including from
Poland. So, we're not racially profiling
in the way that that people are saying
that we do.
>> I can't speak Polish, but guess what I
can do? I can gather those needed legal
articulable facts to put together that
that individual is an illegal alien from
Poland.
>> What do you make of that response,
Hamemed? Because when you hear that
Border Patrol agents are showing up at a
Home Depot and picking people up because
they look Latino, it's hard to see how
that isn't profiling. And of course,
we're hearing that the people they're
picking up are often Latino citizens of
the United States.
Yeah. I mean, the reality is that in the
arrests that we've seen in Los Angeles
and elsewhere, they are picking up
people often times who are Latino. And
these core questions of when and where
Border Patrol and immigration
enforcement agents can make arrests went
all the way to the Supreme Court
>> and tell us what happened there. So, a
federal court judge had limited the way
Department of Homeland Security could
operate in Los Angeles, but the Supreme
Court blocked that order temporarily.
And in his opinion, Justice Kavanaaugh
said that it wasn't the role of the
federal court judge to tell the
government what it could and could not
do when it came to immigration
enforcement. And in fact, Kavanaaugh
said that immigration officers can use
ethnicity at least as a factor in the
decision to stop someone on the streets.
And of course, I think this ruling
really kind of emboldened the Department
of Homeland Security and Greg Bavino to
continue with their actions in Los
Angeles and elsewhere. This is
Kavanaaugh basically agreeing with
Bovino's argument that ethnicity is a
legitimate factor that can be used as
agents are out there deciding who to
question on the streets. So Bo gets this
legal validation from the highest court
at least temporarily. He's got the
administration's backing. What does he
do with that?
Well, of course, they continue going
hard in Los Angeles, hitting Home Depot
and car washes, but the Trump
administration decides it's time for
Bevino and his agents to go from Los
Angeles to Chicago where they take
things up a level.
>> It's hard to see, but there's a
helicopter right there on on this
building. Early on in their time in
Chicago in September, they do this
operation unlike anything I've ever seen
before.
>> And that helicopter has just inserted
snipers for the protection of all these
federal agents you can see entering the
building.
>> Hundreds of agents surround an apartment
complex.
They film a video showing agents
repelling down from a helicopter, you
know, bright spotlights. It really looks
like an action movie, something like a
Michael Bay film.
>> This is Bo having his Hollywood moment.
>> Exactly.
But that operation engenders a huge
response as well, right? I mean, this
was something people saw as as
particularly cruel. I remember the
images. There were people, children
pulled out of their homes in the middle
of the night. How does Bo see this
operation?
>> He's very proud of it.
>> That was a highly successful operation,
Hammad. Remember, there was a lot of
American citizens in that apartment
building that were being prayed upon by
violent gang members. So they I'm very
extremely proud of that large scale of
an operation.
>> You know, he sees the operation as one
in which they got rid of bad people and
this is exactly the type of work that
they should be doing. This was a
success.
>> Um kudos to the agents there. They've
made that part of the city a safer
place. And you know, I think a lot of
folks would agree there with that.
>> And was it a success actually? like what
do we know about that?
>> Yeah. So, like we talked about before
with collateral arrests that happened
here. In some of the reporting that I've
done, I found at least a few of the
people who are arrested had no criminal
background.
>> There were families who were arrested as
well, but the administration
uh has not in the months since given us
any breakdown or any details of what
happened and the individuals who were
detained.
So I think you know this operation in
many ways symbolizes the immigration
debate in the country. You know for for
one portion of the country this was an
overreach. Law enforcement agents
repelling down from helicopters
arresting a bunch of people at random at
times completely inappropriate. Whereas
for Bavino and supporters of the Trump
administration this is exactly what
should happen ultimately if you're in
the country illegally and you're
arrested. That's the exact thing that
should happen.
>> Yeah. This is very much in line with the
White House's policy of zero tolerance.
You know, if you committed the crime of
crossing the border illegally, the
administration is going to go after you
and they say, "Look, this is what people
voted for. Bo is just following through
on that."
>> Yeah. Bevino, DHS, ICE, the
administration, when they're talking
about their crackdown on immigration, at
the forefront, they want to talk about
people with criminal records. But when
you point to people who don't have
criminal records, they say, "Well, those
people crossed illegally and they're in
the country without any form of status,
they should be arrested as well. There's
there's no forgiveness."
>> And what about any legal challenges to
these tactics? Where are the courts on
this today?
Yeah, there are lawsuits in Illinois
right now over the use of force by
border patrol agents there, which has
really been a hallmark of their
operation. Bevino was recently actually
called to testify in that case where a
judge uh seemed particularly skeptical
that it was necessary for agents to use
force on the streets during their
operations. I think by the end of the
year uh we should expect that the
Supreme Court will weigh in one way or
another on Border Patrol's tactics and
in the meantime I think for Betheino and
DHS they believe what they're doing is
completely appropriate and necessary. Do
you ever worry that you're going too far
that people are saying you know the
descriptions of the operations you're
doing some of the use of force do you
ever worry about any excess enforcement?
Does that ever come into your mind?
>> Uh, no it doesn't because especially
those inner city residents here in
Chicago who have been silenced been
silenced by the governor pritzers and
the mayor Johnson's those inner city
residents come out and say please stay
please do more. So, he's claimed that
he's been stopped by residents in Los
Angeles and Chicago who've said they
support what he's doing and he believes
that the people who are opposed, who are
protesting, they're actually in the
minority. What we do know is that his
approach is fully in line with what the
Trump administration wants. the
leadership that the Secretary Gnome, the
Trump administration, President Trump,
have you heard that that people are, you
know, supportive and happy with the work
that you're doing in the country?
>> Well, yeah. Um, that leadership you're
talking about, I called that the the
leadership dream team. That light switch
that I said went off during the last
administration went back on on this
administration, except when it went on,
it's so bright that I have to put
sunglasses on just to even see now. And
so I asked him, you know, is this
operation, are you gonna take it to
other cities?
>> That's the million-dollar question here.
That's the million-dollar question. All
I can say is, uh, stay tuned.
>> And, you know, he was a little bit koi,
but it certainly seemed like yes.
>> And they seem to be appreciative. We're
in lock step with Ma P America, with the
taxpayer. And thank you for having me
here on the podcast.
>> Thank you so much for your time. I
really appreciate it. have a great day.
>> Let's do it again. Thank you.
>> Okay, I hear the argument that he's
making, but that does seem to be in
conflict with all this public polling
that we're starting to see that gets at
the response to these tactics. Because
while the administration has empowered
Bovino, there are growing signs that
many voters really don't like these
methods. Yes, they might support
deportations, but they're not
necessarily in favor of this approach,
these aggressive scenes that we're
seeing play out, especially in Chicago.
And so I wonder if you think there's any
risk politically here for Trump and his
administration in doubling down on Bo
and his style.
>> Yeah. I mean, uh, we recently saw, uh,
the president go on 60 Minutes and say
that in fact, agents aren't going far
enough. So, certainly for him, it seems
like he's supportive of a more
aggressive approach. But you're right, I
think how this plays out with voters is
going to be key. We'll probably see some
of that in the midterm election next
year because these images are
everywhere. We're seeing them on a daily
basis. So until something changes either
in the courts or through an election, I
think Bevino's style and his influence
is only going to grow.
>> And I mentioned earlier some vacancies
within ICE, them replacing some senior
leaders inside the agency and across the
country. In fact, some of those people
have been replaced with ex CBP
officials. So officials who worked at
the agency that oversees the border
patrol are now being put in a position
to lead ICE. Do you hamemed take that as
a signal that what you described as
ISIS's more considered approach, more
methodical approach is on the way out?
What are the implications of that?
Well, it's unclear right now, but one
thing I think is for sure, which is that
ICE is under pressure to deliver more
results. The Trump administration wants
more arrests. They want more
deportations.
So, ICE is on notice.
But I think as a result there could be
increased violence and confrontation in
cities between protesters and the
federal government.
>> Muhammad, thanks so much.
[music]
>> Thank you for having me.
On Tuesday, the Times reported that
Border Patrol officials led by Bavino
are expected to soon leave Chicago and
move their operations to Charlotte and
New Orleans.
We'll be right [music] back.
[music]
Here's what else you should know today.
On Tuesday, the US Navy's biggest and
most advanced aircraft carrier [music]
moved into the Caribbean region. The
move represented a substantial
escalation of US military might [music]
as the Trump administration weighs
taking military steps aimed at ousting
Venezuelan President Nicholas Maduro.
[music]
News of the arrival of the carrier
called the Gerald R. Ford came a day
after Defense Secretary Pete [music]
Hexith announced that six more people
had been killed in strikes on boats that
he said were smuggling drugs in the
[music] Eastern Pacific Ocean.
Those attacks raised the death toll in
the campaign [music] to 76 people since
September.
The presence of the Ford alongside
[music] three missile firing Navy
destroyers brings the total number of
military personnel [music] in the region
to more than 15,000
making it the largest US buildup in the
area in decades.
Today's [music] episode was produced by
Carlos Prito, Stella Tan, and Mooj
Zadei. It was edited by [music] Rachel
Quester, Liz O Balin, and Michael
Benois. Research help by Susan Lee,
contains music by Dan Pal [music] and
Marian Lozano, and was engineered by
Alyssa Moxley.
[music]
That's it for the Daily. I'm Natalie
Kitroak. See you tomorrow.
[music]